# DocuMate

DocuMate is an AI-powered document summarization tool that allows users to upload various document types (PDF, DOCX, PPTX) and receive concise summaries generated by an advanced AI model. The application provides an intuitive user interface built with Streamlit, making it easy to use for anyone.

## Features

- **File Upload**: Users can upload documents in PDF, DOCX, and PPTX formats.
- **AI-Powered Summarization**: Leverages the Groq AI model to generate summaries based on user-defined prompts.
- **User-Friendly Interface**: Built using Streamlit for a seamless user experience.

## Technologies Used

- **Python**: Programming language for backend development.
- **Streamlit**: A powerful library for creating web applications with Python.
- **Groq API**: Used for AI model interactions to generate document summaries.
- **python-docx**: Library for processing DOCX files.
- **PyPDF2**: Library for reading PDF files.
- **python-pptx**: Library for processing PPTX files.

## Installation

1. **Clone the repository**:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/Vipul1432/documate.git
   cd documate
   ```

2. **Set up a virtual environment**

   ```bash
   python -m venv venv
   source venv/bin/activate   # On Windows use `venv\Scripts\activate`
   ```

## Install required packages

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Set up environment variables

- Create a .env file in the root directory of the project.
- Add your Groq API key:

   ```bash
   API_KEY=your_groq_api_key_here
   ```

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! If you'd like to contribute to DocuMate, please fork the repository and create a pull request.

- Fork the repository
- Create a new feature branch
- Make your changes
- Commit your changes
- Push to the branch
- Open a pull request

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](https://github.com/Vipul1432/documate/blob/main/LICENSE.txt) file for details.

